Oprah: WHEN I FIRST READ
GLENNON DOYLE MELTON'S BOOK "LOVE WARRIOR"...
[ CHEERS ]
...I FELT LIKE I KNEW THIS GIRL.
SHE WAS FUNNY, AND SHE WAS WISE,
AND SHE FELT LIKE A FRIEND.
TO ME, GLENNON SPOKE FOR SO MANY PEOPLE
WHO DON'T FEEL BRAVE ENOUGH TO SPEAK THEIR OWN TRUTH,
AND AFTER SITTING DOWN WITH HER
ON "SUPER SOUL SUNDAY,"
I NOW CALL HER
A "SUPER SOUL VISIONARY," SHE IS.
GLENNON DOYLE MELTON'S SESSION IS TITLED
"FIRST THE PAIN, THEN THE RISING."
HEY, BABIES!
[ SMOOCHES ]
HELLO, SUPER SOULERS!
HOLY COW, HERE WE ARE.
OKAY, SO I HAVE A COUPLE QUESTIONS FOR US TODAY.
THE FIRST ONE IS THIS --
HOW WOULD OUR LIVES AND OUR RELATIONSHIPS
AND OUR WORLD TRANSFORM
IF WE STOPPED BEING SO AFRAID OF PAIN?
WHAT IF WE JUST ONCE AND FOR ALL DECIDED
THAT WE WERE STRONG ENOUGH FOR THE PAIN IN OUR LIVES,
SO INSTEAD OF HIDING FROM IT,
WE JUST RUSHED STRAIGHT TOWARD IT
AND ALLOWED OUR PAIN
TO BECOME OUR POWER.
SO, I'M A PERSON WHO HID FROM PAIN
FOR THE FIRST HALF OF MY LIFE.
WHEN I WAS 10 YEARS OLD,
I LOOKED OUT AT THE SCARY WORLD
AND I DECIDED THAT I WAS TOO WEAK FOR IT.
SO, I DROPPED OUT OF LIFE
AND INTO BULIMIA, AND THEN ALCOHOLISM,
UNTIL I WAS 25 AND FOUND MYSELF ON THAT BATHROOM FLOOR,
SHAKING AND HOLDING THAT POSITIVE PREGNANCY TEST
AND FINDING MYSELF DECIDE THAT I WANTED TO BE A MOTHER.
BUT AT THAT POINT, I'D BEEN AN ADDICT FOR 15 YEARS,
SO I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW HOW TO BE A HUMAN BEING.
SO I DECIDED THAT MY BEST BET WOULD BE TO FAKE IT --
TO JUST LOOK AROUND FOR OTHER WOMEN
WHO SEEMED TO BE "ADULTING" SUCCESSFULLY
AND JUST COPY THEM.
SO, MY CRITERIA
WAS THAT I LOOKED FOR WOMEN
WHO WERE WEARING SCARVES.
[ LAUGHTER ]
RIGHT, BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE
IF YOU ARE THE TYPE OF WOMAN
WHO GETS UP EARLY ENOUGH TO, LIKE, STOP
AND LOOK IN THE MIRROR
AND BE LIKE, "SELF,
YOU KNOW WHAT THIS OUTFIT NEEDS, IS A SCARF."
AND THEN YOU HAVE BOUGHT A SCARF AT SOME POINT,
AND YOU KNOW WHERE TO FIND SAID SCARF,
AND ONCE YOU FIND THE SCARF,
YOU KNOW HOW TO DO THAT TYING THING,
THEN YOU ARE JUST CRUSHING LIFE, YOU KNOW?
[ LAUGHTER ]
SO, I BECAME A SCARF WEARER,
AND I BECAME A WIFE AND A MOTHER AND A WRITER
AND AN ACTIVIST BECAUSE I THOUGHT THAT
GROWING UP MEANT BECOMING THINGS, RIGHT?
AND THEN 12 YEARS LATER, MY HUSBAND TOLD ME
THAT HE'D BEEN UNFAITHFUL TO ME OUR ENTIRE MARRIAGE.
AND THAT'S WHEN MY UN-BECOMING BEGAN.
SO, I WENT BACK TO THERAPY
AND I SAT WITH MY THERAPIST AND I SAID,
"LOOK, I'VE NEVER BEEN IN THIS MUCH PAIN IN MY LIFE,
AND I NEED YOU TO HELP ME FIGURE OUT
HOW NOT TO WASTE IT.
I HAVE TO USE THIS PAIN SOMEHOW."
AND SO, I STARTED WORKING REALLY HARD IN THERAPY
AND I LET MY THERAPIST TAKE ME BACK
ALL THE WAY TILL I WAS 10 YEARS OLD,
AND I DROPPED INTO BULIMIA.
AND HERE'S WHAT WE DISCOVERED TOGETHER.
SO, WE'RE ALL BORN WHOLE, RIGHT?
WE'RE TRINITIES, JUST LIKE GOD --
BODY, MIND, AND SPIRIT.
AND THE HEALTHIEST OF US
LIVE OUT LIVES OF THE BODY, PHYSICAL LIVES,
LIVES OF THE MIND, INTELLECTUAL LIVES,
AND LIVES OF THE SOUL, SPIRITUAL LIVES.
BUT WHAT HAPPENED TO ME SO YOUNG
IS THAT OUR CULTURE
GAVE ME SO MANY CONFUSING
AND OBJECTIFYING MESSAGES
ABOUT MY BODY
THAT I JUST STARTED DISASSOCIATING FROM MY BODY.
RIGHT?
BECAUSE GOOD GIRLS DON'T DESIRE,
GOOD GIRLS DON'T HUNGER, GOOD GIRLS DON'T EVEN GROW.
BUT I DID HUNGER, AND I DID DESIRE,
AND I DID GROW.
AND SO I STARTED TO BECOME ASHAMED OF MY BODY,
AND YOU CAN'T LOVE AND CLAIM
ANYTHING THAT YOU'RE ASHAMED OF.
SO, I JUST VOTED MY BODY
OFF THE ISLAND OF MY SELF.
RIGHT?
AND THEN, A SIMILAR THING HAPPENED
TO MY THEN-HUSBAND CRAIG --
WHEN HE WAS 10 YEARS OLD --
WELL, WHEN HE WAS BORN, HE WAS WHOLE TOO --
BODY, MIND, AND SPIRIT.
BUT WHILE THE WORLD TELLS GIRLS
THAT GOOD GIRLS DON'T HUNGRY,
DON'T DESIRE,
THE WORLD TELLS LITTLE BOYS THAT BRAVE BOYS
DON'T FEEL, DON'T CRY,
DON'T MAKE THEMSELVES VULNERABLE IN ANY WAY,
AND SO CRAIG DID CRY, AND HE DID FEEL.
AND SO HE STARTED TO BECOME ASHAMED OF HIS EMOTIONS,
SO HE VOTED HIS EMOTIONAL SELF OFF THE ISLAND.
RIGHT?
SO, YOU SEE, WE'VE GOT WOMEN
TRYING TO LOVE MEN WITH OUR MINDS,
BUT THEY DON'T LIVE THERE,
AND WE'VE GOT MEN TRYING TO LOVE WOMEN WITH THEIR BODIES,
BUT WE DON'T LIVE THERE.
AND IT'S LIKE EVERYTHING THAT WE'VE LEARNED
ABOUT FEMININITY AND MASCULINITY
MAKES IT NEARLY IMPOSSIBLE
FOR REAL MEN AND REAL WOMEN
TO BE FULLY HUMAN WITH EACH OTHER.
WHICH MAKES IT NEARLY IMPOSSIBLE FOR US TO REALLY SEE EACH OTHER,
WHICH, OF COURSE, MAKES IT IMPOSSIBLE FOR US
TO REALLY LOVE EACH OTHER.
AND I KNOW THESE THINGS ARE HUGE GENERALIZATIONS,
BUT I'M JUST SAYING THEM BECAUSE THEY'RE ALWAYS TRUE.
OKAY?
[ LAUGHTER ]
SO, MY THERAPIST SAID, "LISTEN, GLENNON,
I DON'T KNOW IF WE'RE GONNA SAVE YOUR MARRIAGE,
BUT WE'VE GOT TO SAVE YOU.
WE'VE GOT TO HOST A REUNION FOR YOU.
WE'VE GOT TO, LIKE, VOTE YOUR BODY BACK ON THE ISLAND."
AND I SAID, "THAT SOUNDS REALLY HARD.
DO YOU HAVE ANY MORE PILLS?"
[ LAUGHTER ]
AND SHE SAID, "NO MORE PILLS, GLENNON.
WE'RE GOING TO DO THE WORK."
[ Mockingly ] WE'RE GONNA DO THE WORK, GLENNON.
SO...
HATE THE WORK.
SO, FOR ME,
PART OF THE WORK WAS TO GO TO YOGA, OKAY?
SO, YOGA ENDED UP SAVING ME,
BUT I HATED IT AT FIRST
'CAUSE IT WAS SO WOO, WOO, YOU KNOW?
SO, ONE MORNING, DURING THE SEPARATION,
I WAS JUST IN SO MUCH DESPAIR
THAT I WAS ACTUALLY SCARED OF MYSELF.
LIKE, I FELT LIKE IF I STARTED CRYING AGAIN,
I JUST MIGHT NEVER STOP, RIGHT?
SO I PICKED MYSELF UP OFF THE BED
AND I WENT TO YOGA,
AND I WALKED INTO THE YOGA STUDIO,
AND MY INSTRUCTOR -- MY REGULAR INSTRUCTOR --
WASN'T THERE.
SO, THE RECEPTIONIST POINTED ME
TOWARDS THIS NEW ROOM.
AND I SAT DOWN IN THE ROOM,
AND, YOU GUYS, IT WAS ONE MILLION,
BILLION DEGREES IN THE ROOM.
AND I WAS SO ANNOYED BECAUSE MY LIFE WAS SO HARD ALREADY,
AND NOW I DIDN'T HAVE ANY AIR-CONDITIONING, RIGHT?
AND THEN, THE INSTRUCTOR WALKS IN
AND SHE SAYS...
"WELCOME TO HOT YOGA."
AND I WAS LIKE, "HOLY HELL, THIS IS ON PURPOSE."
LIKE, THEY'RE DOING THIS ON PURPOSE.
AND THEN SHE SAYS THE FOLLOWING, LIKE OPRAH,
"NOW WE ARE GOING TO SET OUR INTENTIONS FOR THE CLASS."
AND I'M LIKE, "OKAY."
SO, THE FIRST LADY, OKAY,
ON THE MOST NO-GOOD, VERY BAD,
TERRIBLE DAY OF MY LIFE,
HAS THE NERVE TO SAY THIS SENTENCE --
"MY INTENTION IS TO RADIATE SUNLIGHT
TO ALL SENTIENT BEINGS."
AND EVERYBODY ELSE HAD SOME CRAP LIKE THAT,
AND ALL I COULD DO IS GLARE AT THEM AND THINK,
"WELL, MY INTENTION IS NOT STAB ALL OF YOU TO DEATH."
TO DEATH!
BUT WHEN THEY GOT AROUND TO ME,
I WAS ALREADY CRYING, AND I SAID, "LOOK,
MY INTENTION IS JUST TO STAY ON THIS MAT
AND TRY TO HANDLE WHATEVER IS ABOUT TO HAPPEN HERE
WITHOUT RUNNING OUT THE DOOR."
AND THE ROOM GOT REALLY QUIET.
AND THE INSTRUCTOR LOOKED DIRECTLY AT ME
AND SHE SAID, "OKAY, HONEY.
YOU JUST BE STILL."
AND I WAS LIKE, ALL RIGHT, WELL, THAT SOUNDS EASY.
I CAN DO THAT, RIGHT?
BUT, YOU GUYS, IT WASN'T EASY.
IT WAS ACTUALLY 90 OF THE HARDEST MINUTES OF MY LIFE
BECAUSE WHAT I FOUND OUT,
AS I SAT THERE,
IS THAT I'D BEEN RUNNING SO HARD
AND SO FAST TO AVOID
THE CONFUSION AND PAIN OF MY PAST
AND THE WHITE-HOT RAGE
AND SHAME OF MY BETRAYAL
AND MY TERROR
FOR THE FUTURE OF MY BABIES
AND MY FAMILY AND MYSELF,
THAT HADN'T LET...
I HADN'T FELT ANY OF IT, RIGHT?
AND SO, FOR THIS 90 MINUTES,
I JUST HAD TO SIT THERE AND SURRENDER
TO ALL OF THE PAIN AND FEAR OF ALL OF IT,
AND I THINK IT WAS THE FIRST 90 MINUTES
IN WHICH I ALLOWED MYSELF TO FEEL WHAT IT MEANS
TO BE FULLY HUMAN
WITHOUT RUNNING OUT THE DOOR.
IT FELT LIKE IT MIGHT KILL ME.
BUT IT DIDN'T.
AND WE GOT TO THE END OF THE YOGA CLASS
AND I WAS JUST LAYING ON MY MAT
AND I WAS JUST SOAKING WET FROM TEARS AND SWEAT, LIKE --
LIKE IT HAD BEEN SOME KIND OF ORGANIC BAPTISM.
AND THE INSTRUCTOR WALKS OVER TO ME
AND SHE LEANS OVER INTO MY EAR
AND SHE SAYS, "HONEY, WHAT YOU JUST SURVIVED...
THAT WAS THE JOURNEY OF THE WARRIOR."
AND I THOUGHT, "OH, MY GOD. YOGA IS SO WEIRD.
WHAT? LIKE, GOD.
UGH! WHATEVER."
SO, I JUST, LIKE, GOT MY MAT
AND I GOT INTO MY VAN, AND I DROVE HOME,
AND ON THE WAY HOME,
YOU GUYS HAVE THESE CRAZY DEJA VU MOMENTS.
SO, I PICKED UP THIS BOOK OFF MY COFFEE TABLE
THAT I'D READING,
AND IT FLIPPED OPEN TO THIS PAGE --
IT WAS A BOOK CALLED "WHEN THINGS FALL APART"
BY PEMA CHODRON --
AND I OPENED UP TO THIS PAGE AND READ THIS PARAGRAPH --
"IF YOU CAN SIT WITH THE HOT LONELINESS
FOR 1.6 SECONDS TODAY,
WHEN YESTERDAY, YOU COULD ONLY SIT WITH IT FOR ONE,
THEN THAT IS THE JOURNEY OF THE WARRIOR."
[ LIGHT APPLAUSE ]
AND I JUST SAT ON THE FLOOR
AND READ THAT AND READ THAT AND READ THAT,
AND I THOUGHT, "OH, MY GOD.
THAT IS WHAT I'VE BEEN DOING SINCE I WAS 10 YEARS OLD --
TRYING TO OUTRUN THE HOT LONELINESS."
SO, WHEN I WAS 10 YEARS OLD WAS
WHEN I FIRST STARTED HAVING PAINFUL HUMAN FEELINGS,
LIKE FEAR AND ANGER
AND UNWORTHINESS AND DOUBT AND UNBELONGING.
BUT SINCE IN OUR CULTURE,
WE ONLY TALK ABOUT THE VALUE OF HAPPY, SHINY FEELINGS.
I THOUGHT THERE WAS SOMETHING WRONG WITH ME.
I DIDN'T KNOW THAT THESE WERE JUST NORMAL HUMAN FEELINGS
THAT EVERYBODY HAD
AND THAT THEY HAD SOMETHING TO TEACH ME.
I THOUGHT THEY WERE SOMETHING TO HIDE OR GET RID OF.
AND THE AMAZING THING ABOUT OUR WORLD
IS THAT THE SECOND YOU START FEELING
YOUR HOT LONELINESS,
THE WORLD STARTS SHOWING YOU "EASY" BUTTONS
TO GET OUT OF IT.
SO, DO YOU GUYS REMEMBER THOSE STAPLES COMMERCIALS
WHERE THINGS WOULD GET STRESSFUL
AND THEN A RED "EASY" BUTTON WOULD POP UP
AND YOU COULD HIT IT AND BE TRANSPORTED OUT OF YOUR PAIN
INTO THIS STRESS-FREE PLACE?
WELL, WE ALL LOVE "EASY" BUTTONS, RIGHT?
WE ALL HAVE THEM -- FOOD, BOOZE, SEX,
SHOPPING, SNARK, DENIAL.
NOW, EVERYBODY'S IS SCROLL,
SCROLL, SCROLL, RIGHT?
THE SECOND WE START FEELING OUR HOT LONELINESS,
WE'RE LIKE, "YOU KNOW WHAT I NEED TO DO?
I NEED TO CHECK ON THAT GUY I KNEW IN SECOND GRADE
AND SEE HOW HIS TRIP TO BERMUDA IS GOING."
AND WE FEEL SO MUCH BETTER, RIGHT?
WE'RE NUMB, BUT THE PROBLEM IS,
WHEN WE TRANSPORT OURSELVES
OUT OF OUR HOT LONELINESS,
WE MISS ALL OF OUR TRANSFORMATION
BECAUSE EVERYTHING THAT WE NEED TO BECOME THE PEOPLE
WE ARE MEANT TO BECOME NEXT
IS ACTUALLY INSIDE
THE HOT LONELINESS OF NOW, RIGHT?
SO, WHEN WE "EASY" BUTTON OUR WAY OUT,
WE ARE LIKE CATERPILLARS WHO JUMP OUT OF THE COCOON
RIGHT BEFORE WE WOULD'VE BECOME BUTTERFLIES.
BECAUSE PAIN IS ACTUALLY NOT A HOT POTATO.
IT'S A TRAVELING PROFESSOR,
AND IT KNOCKS ON EVERYBODY'S DOOR
AND THE WISEST ONES SAY,
"COME IN AND SIT DOWN AND DON'T LEAVE
UNTIL YOU'VE TAUGHT ME WHAT I NEED TO KNOW."
WE HAVE IT ALL WRONG.
WE ARE AFRAID OF PAIN, BUT WE WERE MADE FOR PAIN.
WE NEED TO BE AFRAID OF THE "EASY" BUTTONS, RIGHT,
BECAUSE THE JOURNEY OF THE LOVE WARRIOR
IS TO RUSH TOWARDS HER PAIN
AND ALLOW HER PAIN TO BECOME HER POWER.
IF WE STOPPED FEARING PAIN, YOU GUYS,
WE WOULD BECOME SUCH BETTER PARENTS.
SO, I WAS AT THIS PARENTING CONVENTION RECENTLY,
AND THIS WOMAN RAISED HER HAND
AND SHE SAID, "GLENNON...
MY FAMILY IS BROKEN
AND THERE'S NOTHING I CAN DO TO FIX IT.
IT'S DONE.
AND MY LITTLE BOY IS IN SO MUCH PAIN,
AND EVERY DAY, I LOOK AT HIM
AND I THINK, 'OH, MY GOD, I HAD ONE JOB.'
MY ONE JOB WAS TO PROTECT HIM FROM PAIN,
AND I COULDN'T DO IT.
AND I FEEL LIKE SUCH A FAILURE."
AND I SAID, "OKAY, HOLD ON A SECOND.
CAN YOU GIVE ME THREE WORDS
THAT YOU WOULD USE TO DESCRIBE THE KIND OF MAN
YOU'RE TRYING TO RAISE?"
AND SHE SAID, "I WANT HIM TO BE KIND,
AND I WANT HIM TO BE WISE,
AND I WANT HIM TO BE RESILIENT."
I SAID, "OKAY, THEN. WHAT IS IT IN A HUMAN LIFE
THAT CREATES KINDNESS AND WISDOM AND RESILIENCE.
IT'S PAIN."
THAT'S IT. IT'S THE STRUGGLE.
IT'S NOT HAVING NOTHING TO OVERCOME --
IT'S OVERCOMING AND OVERCOMING AND OVERCOMING.
SO, IS IT POSSIBLE THAT WE ARE TRYING
TO PROTECT OUR CHILDREN
FROM THE ONE THING THAT WILL ALLOW THEM TO BECOME
THE PEOPLE WE DREAM THEY'LL BE?
[ APPLAUSE, CHEERS ]
AND IS IT POSSIBLE THAT WE ALL FEEL LIKE FAILURES
BECAUSE WE HAVE THE WRONG JOB DESCRIPTION?
BECAUSE IT WAS NEVER OUR JOB, NOR OUR RIGHT,
TO PROTECT OUR CHILDREN FROM THEIR PAIN.
OUR JOB IS TO POINT THEM DIRECTLY TOWARDS IT
AND SAY, "BABY, THAT WAS MEANT FOR YOU.
AND I SEE YOUR FEAR, AND IT'S REAL, AND IT'S BIG,
BUT I SEE YOUR COURAGE AND IT'S BIGGER," RIGHT?
AND, YOU GUYS,
IF WE STOPPED FEARING PAIN,
WE WOULD BECOME SUCH BETTER FRIENDS.
EVERY DAY, I HEAR FROM A WOMAN
TO WHOM THE WORST HAS HAPPENED.
SHE'S LOST A SPOUSE, SHE'S LOST A BABY,
SHE'S LOST, SHE'S LOST.
AND THEN ON TOP OF THAT LOSS,
INEVITABLY, COMES A SECOND LOSS,
WHICH IS THAT SHE LOSES ALL OF HER FRIENDS.
HER FRIENDS JUST FALL AWAY, ONE AT A TIME.
AND I'VE COME TO BELIEVE THAT THAT IS NOT
BECAUSE HER FRIENDS WERE BAD PEOPLE.
IT'S BECAUSE HER FRIENDS HAVE THE WRONG JOB DESCRIPTION.
BECAUSE IF YOU ASK ANY OF THEM
WHY THEY STOPPED SHOWING UP,
THEY'LL SAY SOMETHING LIKE THIS --
"I JUST DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO SAY TO FIX IT."
AS IF GRIEF IS SOMETHING TO BE FIXED!
RIGHT?
GRIEF IS HOLY, JUST LIKE JOY IS.
GRIEF IS JUST THE PRICE OF LOVE.
RIGHT?
IT'S THE RECEIPT WE HOLD IN THE AIR
TO SAY TO THE WORLD, "LOOK, I PAID THE PRICE...
FOR LOVE."
AND IT'S OFTEN THE ONLY THING
A WOMAN HAS LEFT TO PROVE SHE LOVED.
AND THE LAST THING SHE WANTS IS FOR SOMEBODY TO COME IN
AND TRY TO SNATCH IT FROM HER.
RIGHT?
WE DON'T NEED FRIENDS WHO CAN FIX OUR PAIN.
WE NEED FRIENDS WHO ARE BRAVE ENOUGH
TO BE STILL WITH PAIN --
TO LET US HAVE IT, RIGHT?
BECAUSE FRIENDSHIP -- FRIENDSHIP IS JUST TWO PEOPLE
NOT BEING GOD TOGETHER, RIGHT?
THIS IS FRIENDSHIP.
THAT'S IT.
AND, YOU GUYS, IF WE STOP FEARING OUR PAIN,
WE WOULD FINALLY FIND OUR PURPOSE IN OUR TRIBE.
SO, THIS IS WHAT I HEAR EVERY DAY --
"I CAN'T GO THERE. IT'LL BREAK MY HEART.
I CAN'T MEET HER. IT'LL BREAK MY HEART.
I CAN'T READ THAT. IT'LL BREAK MY HEART."
BUT HEARTBREAK IS NOT SOMETHING TO BE AVOIDED.
HEARTBREAK IS THE GREATEST CLUE OF OUR LIVES, RIGHT,
BECAUSE WHAT BREAKS YOUR HEART
IS DIFFERENT THAN WHAT BREAKS YOUR HEART.
FOR YOU, IT'S RACISM,
AND FOR YOU, IT'S HUNGER, AND FOR YOU, IT'S WAR,
AND FOR YOU, IT'S ANIMAL CRUELTY.
AND WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU FIND THAT THING
THAT BREAKS YOUR HEART OPEN AND MAKES YOU --
MAKES IT HARD TO BREATHE,
AND YOU DON'T "EASY" BUTTON YOUR WAY OUT
BUT YOU LET IT BE YOUR PROFESSOR,
IT GUIDES YOU TOWARDS THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE DOING THAT WORLD-HEALING WORK
IN THE WORLD, RIGHT?
AND THERE YOU FIND YOUR PURPOSE,
AND THEN THE BONUS IS, THAT THERE YOU FIND YOUR TRIBE.
BECAUSE THERE'S NO BOND GREATER THAN THE BOND THAT HAPPENS
BETWEEN PEOPLE DOING THE SAME WORLD-HEALING WORK TOGETHER.
YOU GUYS AND GIRLS AND WOMEN,
IF WE STOPPED FEARING OUR PAIN,
WE WOULD HEAL OUR NATION, OKAY?
WE ARE IN A SWEATY-ASS YOGA CLASS RIGHT NOW...
[ LAUGHTER ]
...AND WE HAVE GOT TO COMMIT TO STAYING ON OUR MAT
BECAUSE EVERYTHING WE NEED
TO BECOME THE COUNTRY WE WERE MEANT TO BE,
TO BECOME GREAT FOR THE FIRST TIME
FOR ALL OF US, RIGHT,
IS INSIDE THE HOT LONELINESS
OF OUR COLLECTIVE PAIN RIGHT NOW.
OKAY?
SO, I NEED TO TALK TO THE WHITE WOMEN
FOR A MINUTE, OKAY?
WE'RE GOING TO TALK, OKAY?
SO, I KNOW THAT MANY OF US
ARE FEELING ALONE AND IGNORED
AND THREATENED AND ABUSED,
AND WE'RE FEELING LIKE OUR BODIES ARE BEING THREATENED
AND THAT OUR CHILDREN'S EDUCATION IS AT RISK
AND WE CAN BE GRABBED AT ANY MINUTE
AND OUR DEGRADATION
AND OUR OBJECTIFICATION AND OUR DISCRIMINATION
HAS BECOME NORMALIZED AND ACCEPTED
IN WAYS THAT ARE CHILLING.
AND THIS IS PAINFUL.
BUT WHAT WE NEED TO REMEMBER
IS THAT THIS IS JUST A TOUCH
OF THE PAIN THAT SO MANY
MARGINALIZED PEOPLE IN THIS COUNTRY
HAVE BEEN FEELING FOR AGES, RIGHT?
FOR BLACK PEOPLE AND BROWN PEOPLE
AND TRANS PEOPLE
AND GAY PEOPLE AND MUSLIM PEOPLE
AND NATIVE AMERICANS AND POOR PEOPLE, RIGHT?
THIS IS JUST A TOUCH
OF WHAT THEY'VE BEEN FEELING.
AND WHAT SUCKS IS THAT IT TOOK US
BEING PERSONALLY AFFECTED TO FINALLY SHOW UP.
RIGHT?
AND SO, WE CANNOT SHOW UP FOR THE MOVEMENT
AND SAY "HERE WE ARE" UNTIL WE SAY
"WE ARE SO DAMN SORRY IT TOOK US SO LONG."
RIGHT?
AND THEN, WHEN WE ARE SPEAKING AGAI--
WE BETTER NOT SPEAK AGAINST MISOGYNY
IF IN THE SAME BREATH WE'RE NOT ALSO SPEAKING
AGAINST TRANSPHOBIA AND HOMOPHOBIA
AND RACISM AND CLASSISM
AND POVERTY IN THE SAME BREATH
BECAUSE THIS IS ONE FIGHT. IT ALWAYS HAS BEEN.
AND SO, WHEN WOMEN SAY TO ME -- WHEN WHITE WOMEN SAY TO ME,
"HOW DO I LEAD? WHERE DO I BEGIN?"
I SAY, "YOU DO NOT LEAD, AND YOU DON'T BEGIN ANYTHING!"
THE FIGHT FOR CIVIL RIGHTS IS NOT NEW.
WE'RE JUST NEW TO IT, RIGHT?
AND THE GENERALS OF JUSTICE HAVE ALWAYS BEEN
AND WILL ALWAYS BE THE WOMEN OF COLOR, RIGHT?
SO, WHAT YOU DO IS,
YOU LEARN ABOUT SHIRLEY CHISHOLM
AND YOU LEARN ABOUT MAYA ANGELOU
AND YOU LEARN, AND YOU LEARN, AND YOU LEARN,
AND THEN YOU LEARN ABOUT AND FOLLOW AVA DUVERNAY
AND ALICIA GARZA
AND CARMEN PEREZ AND LINDA SARSOUR --
YOU LOOK AT HOW THEY'RE FIGHTING,
AND THEN YOU FIGHT LIKE THEY'RE FIGHTING. RIGHT?
BECAUSE IF OUR WHITE FEMINISM DOES NOT BECOME INTERSECTIONAL,
THEN IT WILL BE NOTHING.
BUT THE BEAUTY OF THIS MOMENT,
YOU GUYS, IS THAT WE WERE ASLEEP AND SEPARATE,
AND NOW WE'RE AWAKE AND UNITED.
AND OUR COLLECTIVE PAIN CAN BECOME OUR COLLECTIVE POWER.
IT ALREADY IS!
LOOK AROUND, LOOK AROUND,
HOW LUCKY WE ARE TO BE ALIVE RIGHT NOW!
OKAY.
I'M ALMOST DONE. I'M EIGHT MINUTES OVER.
SO!
LISTEN.
THE JOURNEY OF THE LOVE WARRIOR
IS TO STOP HIDING FROM HER PAIN
AND INSTEAD TURN DIRECTLY TOWARDS IT,
RIGHT, AND MARCH RIGHT INTO IT.
AND YOU DON'T HAVE TO TRUST ME THAT THAT WORKS
BECAUSE EVERY GREAT SPIRITUAL LEADER
WHO HAS EVER GRACED OUR EARTH
HAS TAUGHT THE SAME THING --
THAT YOU NEED YOU PAIN, RIGHT?
WHETHER IT WAS BUDDHA, WHOSE FATHER TRIED
TO PROTECT HIM FROM ALL SUFFERING,
BUT HE HAD TO LEAVE AND EXPERIENCE ALL OF IT
BEFORE HE COULD FIND ENLIGHTENMENT.
OR MY FAVORITE, JOAN OF ARC WHO, AT 14,
LED HER PEOPLE STRAIGHT INTO THE BATTLE
TO FIND VICTORY, RIGHT?
OR WESTLEY FROM "THE PRINCESS BRIDE,"
WHO SAID...
..."LIFE IS PAIN, HIGHNESS,
AND ANYONE WHO TELLS YOU DIFFERENTLY
IS SELLING YOU SOMETHING."
OR JESUS, YOU GUYS -- I, LIKE, WORSHIP THE GUY, OKAY.
AND THE NIGHT BEFORE THE CRUCIFIXION,
SO HE HAD LIKE THESE 12 FRIENDS
AND ONE OF THEM WAS LIKE REALLY SLOW, OKAY --
HIS NAME WAS PETER. I LIKE PETER.
AND HE NEVER KNEW WHAT WAS GOING ON,
BUT HE FINALLY FIGURED OUT THE NIGHT
BEFORE THE CRUCIFIXION WHAT WAS ABOUT TO HAPPEN.
SO, HE GOES UP TO JESUS AND HE'S LIKE,
"DUDE, UM...
SO HERE'S WHAT I HEARD --
THEY'RE GOING TO KILL YOU TOMORROW.
YOU'RE GOD, SO EXNAY ON THE RUSIFIXIONKAY.
I FEEL LIKE...
LET'S JUST RUN. LET'S GET OUT OF HERE," OKAY?
SO, BASICALLY PETER IS LIKE "EASY" BUTTON.
DENIAL, RIGHT? AND WHAT DID JESUS SAY?
HE SAID, "NO, GET BEHIND ME.
THAT PAIN WAS MEANT FOR ME."
THERE IS NO GLORY
EXCEPT STRAIGHT THROUGH YOUR STORY.
AND THERE IS NO RESURRECTION
WITHOUT THE CRUCIFIXION FIRST.
ALL OF OUR PROBLEMS COME FROM TRYING TO RISE
BEFORE WE SURRENDER TO OUR OWN CRUCIFIXION.
FOR US, IN OUR PERSONAL LIVES,
FOR OUR RELATIONSHIPS, FOR OUR WORLD,
THE PATTERN IS AND ALWAYS WILL BE
FIRST, THE PAIN,
THEN THE RISING.
FIRST OUR PAIN,
THEN OUR RISING.
OKAY, I'M DONE. [ SIGHS ]
[ CHEERING ]